libxio
------

libxio (a.k.a lib accelio) is a lightweight messaging library layered on top
of rdma. the library provides asynchronous messaging designed for zero
copy messaging and lock free scalability. 

Prerequistes packages
----------------------
OFED 
	Mellanox OFED pacakage is recommended
	look for latest OFED packages at:
	http://www.mellanox.com/page/products_dyn?product_family=26


RedHat
	yum groupinstall "Infiniband Support"
	yum install infiniband-diags
	yum install librdmacm-devel libibverbs-devel numactl numactl-devel libaio-devel

Ubuntu:
	apt-get install librdmacm-dev libibverbs-dev numactl libnuma-dev libaio-dev


Building and installation
--------------------------

to build the library follow the following steps:
  - run ./autogen.sh
  - run ./configure
  - run make
  - follow examples in ./examples/

Examples
--------

The following examples are provided:

	1. hello world - a minimal single process, single thread "hello world"
			 server and client.

	2. hello world mt - a multithreaded client, and multithreaded server 
			    demonstrating how to scale and work in multi
			    threaded environment.

	3. R-AIO	 -  Linux's Remote AIO API over libxio. The example contains
			    a DSO library, a server application and simple clients
			    the client demonstrates reading of files from the server.
			    the interface to the library is libraio.h.

	4. fio		 -  a new ioengine for fio application demonstrating the use of 
			    libraio. The fio application is a benchmark application
			    allowing multithreaded/multiprocessed benchmarks of io devices. 
			    The application is used to provide a neutral benchmark for the
			    libxio performance.

each example contains simple scripts showing how to run the example from the
local directory

Configuration options:
----------------------

	1. Huge pages - libxio allocates huge pages for its internal buffers
			and memory. The user should enable huge pages to gain
			best performance.
			for enabling huge pages run:

				echo 3000 > /proc/sys/vm/nr_hugepages
			
			as root.

	2. fio -	libxio contains example ioengine for fio application.
			since the fio example depends on fio sources, 
			to download the source code do:

			git clone git://git.kernel.org/pub/scm/linux/kernel/git/axboe/fio.git

			set FIO_ROOT environment variable pointing to fio sources:

			export FIO_ROOT=/home/fio
	
			libxio lookup for FIO_ROOT environment variable to
			find the fio sources

			The fio build is not enabled by default. to enable the fio example:

			run configure as follows:

			./configure --enable-fio-build=yes FIO_ROOT=/home/fio


Building blocks:
----------------

libxio is a software library that provides asynchronous messaging notifications. 
The libxio API provides a mechanism to send and receive asynchronous messages between peers.
Upon message arrival, an asynchronous callback is triggered to the application.
The library is built around message pump. The library provides default
implementation around epoll but the library can use third party mechanism such
ACE, libevent etc.

the library provides several primitives that enables it user to quickly
develop event driven network servers.

	1. event loop - event loop or message pump is the mechanism that execute a callback function when a 
		        specific event occurs on a file descriptor or after a timeout has been reached.
			Before you can use any interesting libxio function, you need to allocate one or more 
			event loop structures. If you want to have multiple threads polling for IO, 
			you need to have an xio_event_loop for each thread. the library provides default 
			minimalistic event loop around epoll. the user may replace the default implementation 
			with its own event loop. this is done by setting 2 user defined callbacks which
			enables the library to add or remove fd to/from the event loop to the context.

	2. xio_context - xio context represents a thread semantics . the context contains information 
			 about the running thread such as the cpu id, numa node etc. 
			 upon context creation, the user sets its event loop object and a 
			 structure that contain user callbacks to add/remove fds to this event loop.
			 if the user utilize the default implementation, it can set operations to NULL.
	
	3. xio_session - xio session is central concept in libxio.  a session is a semi-permanent interactive 
			 information interchange, also known as a dialogue, a conversation or a meeting, between 
			 two or more communicating devices.  A session is set up or established at a certain point 
			 in time, and torn down at a later point in time. An established communication session 
			 may involve more than one message in each direction. An established session is the basic 
			 requirement to perform a connection-oriented communication. a single xio_session may 
			 be associated with multiple xio_connection. libxio
			 sessions are created with url. the url is in form of: "<scheme>://<address>:<port>/resource"
			 a session may represent a remote resource that requester requests from the remote responder.
			 upon opening a session, the user provides a structure of callbacks that shall be triggered upon
			 network events, such as session events, arriving messages, errors etc.

	4. xio_connection - connection is a requester side handle that enables the peer to send a message to remote peer.
			    application typically open one connection per session per thread. for example 
			    if a session is maintained by 4 worker threads than each thread should have its own connection.
	
	5. xio_server - the server object represents the passive side object. the server is created by calling xio_bind.
			there are two types of xio servers: the first is acceptor which accepts incoming connections, and
			handles them. it may forward incoming connection to a backend worker thread or redirect it to 
			another server it may also reject or accept the connection. the second server type 
			is worker thread. worker threads are inteneded to work on the background an parallelize 
			the workload upon all cores scaling  out the application. a server can also be a mixure 
			of acceptor and worker. which mean that the same server accepts the connection and 
			also processes the message requests.

	6. xio_mr -	the mr represents memory region that was registered for RDMA operations. 
			Doing memory registration, allows the RDMA device to read and write data to this memory.
			Performing this registration takes some time, so performing memory registration isn’t 
			recommended in the data path, when fast response is required.
			There are two models of working with memory regions: 
			the first is that the application registers its buffers and the other is that
			the library registers the buffers and allows the application to access them directly.

